Second Samuel chapter six, and I'll begin reading from verse six.
When they came to the threshing floor of Na'khan, Azah reached out and took hold of the ark of God because the oxen stumbled.
The Lord's anger burned against Azah because of his irreverent act.
Therefore God struck him down and he died there beside the Ark of God.
Then David was angry because of the Lord's wrath.
It had broken out against Azah.
And this day, that to this day, that place is called Perez Azah.
David was afraid of the Lord that day and said, How can the Ark of the Lord ever come to me?
He was not willing to take the ark of the Lord to be with him in the city of David.
Instead, he took it to the house of Obed Edom, the Gittite.
The ark of the Lord remained in the house of Obed Edom, the Gittite for three months, and the Lord blessed him and his entire household.
This is the word of the Lord.
Good morning church.
Oh, wow.
Yes, we're that church.
I love it.
It is an honor to be here.
This is actually my first time in Portland.
And my first brief exegesis of this area is your coffee is good and your sleeves are cuffed.
So I'm happy to be here.
My name is Faith Erie Cho.
My family and I, we are in Northern New Jersey, 20 minutes from New York City.
And yes, we are in the land of pizza, bagels, and coffee.
So here we go.
And as Tyler was reading that passage out loud, because, you know, when we prep these things, I read it in my head.
I realize how it could be a bit of a damper on a Sunday.
You know, you may be thinking, wow, is this like a fire and brimstone kind of a preacher?
Or where are we going at here?
What is she insinuating?
Why are we learning about how Usa died?
And David was mad, and Obed Edom was blessed.
So what's the deal here?
And what does it have to do with a present-centered life?
And that's what I'm going to be talking about today.
It's the present-centered life, a life of continual communion with God.
I think the phrase that I want to point out here and highlight is when David says, how can the ark of the Lord ever come to me?
How can the ark of the Lord ever come to me?
This is his spiritual frustration.
You see, David as a newly minted king had a vision.
Now that he's about to start leading this kingdom
And walking into his calling, he dreams of a kingdom that's centered around the presence of God.
And so he knows that the presence of God is where the arc of the covenant is.
And so he's trying to bring the arc towards Jerusalem.
Now this is a great vision.
It's like saying, I want to build a present-centered family.
I want a Christ-like marriage.
I want my job to honor God, and I want Jesus to be at the center of it all.
I mean, this is a really good vision.
So what gives?
Like, what's with the diversion, God?
I mean, isn't that a good desire?
It's almost like the feeling that I get when I read this passage for the first time is, you know, when children raise their hands and they go up, and then, you know, if a parent ever goes, you know what?
Let me just kill you now.
You know, like, it's just, I could imagine this is extremely frustrating
And you know what?
Having a friendship with God is frustrating sometimes.
Am I right?
Because we sing these things and we say these things and we practice these things.
But yeah, at the end of the day, He is a God that we cannot see and sometimes cannot hear and often cannot feel.
And yeah, we are supposed to give Him our whole lives.
There are a lot of spiritual frustrations that are normal in our faith.
journey because at the end of the day God is mystical, am I right?
Like he's not just a bridge that you see or a store that you walk into.
Like he's mystical, he's beyond our human intellect.
And sometimes he's beyond our understanding.
I remember once I was turning off all the lights in my home and I was walking through the hallways and I heard some whimpering in my child's room and so I immediately go and
I see her, she's on her knees, and she's whimpering.
And I go, baby girl, what's going on?
What's wrong?
And she goes, he's stuck.
And I go, what?
Who's stuck?
She goes, Jesus.
Because at church, they said he lives inside of me.
And I told him, you could come out.
It's OK.
Why are you stuck?
He won't come out.
I go, oh, my child.
We've got to work on some theology here.
But oftentimes, we ourselves are like, God, I gave you my life.
I'm doing the lecture 365.
I'm doing the morning midday.
evening thing.
And yeah, I still feel like something is missing.
I don't enjoy worship like I should.
I don't look forward when the app reminds me to pray.
I rather just binge watch a documentary about a murderer.
Like I just, I don't feel the pull, God.
And we feel as though like, I love Jesus, but what does it take to be in love with Jesus?
And that is oftentimes our frustration.
I remember when I first got saved, it was such a romantic, fantastic, epic experience to the point where I told everyone, I'll never go back.
And then I was so frustrated with how devastatingly normal life is.
And I was trying to recreate these moments with God.
Every Sunday, I wanted to be wowed.
Like, tell me something I have never heard of.
That's what I wanted.
Until later, I realized that the gift of the gospel is not about accruing all-inducing revelations and collecting exciting moments, but rather, it's an intimate, authentic, and passionate friendship with Jesus.
John 14 verse 17 says, he is the spirit of truth.
The world is unable to receive him because it doesn't see him or know him.
But you do know him because he remains with you and will be in you.
That's the phrase.
He remains with you and he will be in you.
So when your daily practices are done,
when you put your phone down, when you're no longer doing the pause, the sanctified pause that we're all aiming to do, the prayer does not end.
The friendship is not on pause because he's still with you.
He remains with you and will be in you.
This is about a continual communion with the Holy Spirit.
It does not end with your dedicated time of prayer, but it overflows into everything that you do.
It is a lifestyle of keeping the lights on for Jesus perpetually, no matter what you are doing or who you are with.
It's not about concentrating on him to the point of distraction.
It's not just an interruption of your day with activities and programs, but it's a repurposing of your life.
In order to cultivate a life that has continual communion with Jesus, it's not about just adding another program.
We need to repurpose the whole thing, the whole life.
But before I get into the practicalities of how we're aiming to do this, I want to clarify what I mean and what I hope all of us could at least think of when I talk about the presence of God.
Because it's a phrase that we often sing about and we talk about, but for some of us it may be kind of confusing and we may not be sure why we say presence of God and not just God and not just Jesus at times.
We're not talking about another entity.
We are just talking about God.
And as you and I both know, God is everywhere.
God is everywhere.
He is in the galaxies above and the craters below.
He is everywhere.
He is with you.
He is with me.
He is in the sky.
He's in every hospital room.
He is everywhere.
He is transcendent.
He is beyond our understanding.
But just as much as God is everywhere, He is also somewhere.
When we speak of the presence of God, we're talking about not just His transcendence, but His imminence.
How He is omnipresent and infinite, and yet He's also relationally accessible to you and me.
He chose to be Immanuel.
He's God with us, right?
That's Jesus.
He also walks with us.
He rescues us.
He draws near to the brokenhearted.
He's emotionally involved.
He helps, provides, teaches, counsels.
He dwells with us.
So that's what we talk about when we're talking about the presence of God.
And that's why we say, Holy Spirit, come.
Right?
Some of us may be confused.
Like, why will we ask him to come if he's already been here?
And he's been here before I was here.
And, you know, that's what we mean.
Because just as much as he's everywhere, he's also somewhere.
And he is relationally accessible to us.
Right?
Now, to understand how to build a continual communion with God, I'm going to just kind of briefly run through how the presence of God dwelled with the community.
throughout redemptive history, okay?
So there's gonna be a list that goes up, hopefully.
All right, there we go.
The garden, the tabernacle, temple, and Jesus, and also the believers and the church.
Wherever the Lord dwelled, when His presence dwelled, it was in these places.
He walked in the cool of the day in the garden.
He was in the most holy place in the tabernacle, then the temple.
And then Jesus, who is both God and man, showed us what it looks like to be completely yielded and perfectly submitted to the Holy Spirit.
And then now he's supposed to be in the center of every believer in the church.
Wherever the presence of God dwelled long term, he was intentionally hosted.
He's intentionally hosted.
And wherever he is intentionally hosted, he is at the center.
Not just physically, he's not just physically at the center, but the center of our orbit, the source of the gravitational pull that keeps everything together.
He is the center of our purpose.
He is our reward.
He is our compass.
So when I say center,
Like I said, I'm not talking about just physical location.
It's kind of like sometimes the center of a child's life is their basketball schedule or their soccer schedule.
Sometimes the center of our lives is what our corporate job tells us it is supposed to be.
So the center, the purpose, the compass, the reward, the gravitational pull of all things, what does your life
orbit around.
The way that he was at the center of the garden was Adam and Eve's ability to thrive and to expand the garden depended on their alignment with God's presence, their communion with God's presence.
So if you will remember with me how it all began, God made Adam and Eve and then he breathed life into them and then he gave them the biggest homework assignment of all time.
Now go and subdue the earth.
You know, go take over.
Go and be fruitful.
Go expand.
So they were supposed to expand this garden.
But right afterwards, in Genesis 2, verse 3, it says, God blessed the seventh day, declared it holy, for honor he rested from all his work of creation.
So first he gives them this assignment.
And then they rest because he was prioritizing communion
before productivity.
And everything they were to do was to overflow from who they are with.
Also in Genesis 3, 2 to 3, the woman said to the serpent, we may eat the fruit from the trees in the garden, but about the fruit of the tree in the middle of the garden.
God said, you must not eat it or touch it or you will die.
So we know on a physical level, the tree was actually in the middle.
It was in the center of the garden, which is so poignant and beautiful because if you think about it, this garden was supposed to expand and thrive and be fruitful, but yet be centered on this choice for relationship at the very middle of the garden was this choice for relationship.
Every time they passed the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, they had a choice to be perfectly aligned with God or go their own way.
It kind of reminds me of the episode of Friends, I don't know if we're too holy for that here, but that one episode of Friends when Joey walks into a living room, when there's no TV, and he goes, what is all the furniture pointed at then?
Right?
Because for Joey, the purpose of a living room was to watch TV and to be in that lazy chair, right?
The purpose of the garden was their communion with God, which is why it was at the center.
He was also at the center of ancient Israel.
And we see this first in the tabernacle.
The purpose of the tabernacle was to host the presence of God in the wilderness.
Now, for those of you that remember the wilderness story of the Israelites, some of us may think that the purpose of the wilderness was to get to the promised land when actually that was not the case.
If that were the case, that journey would have taken 11 days.
The purpose of the wilderness was the presence of God.
In fact, you can see in the way they encamped around the tabernacle, okay?
This is how
When they're not traveling, this is how they all settled down.
The tabernacles in the middle and everyone is just encamped around the presence of God.
The purpose of Israel and their gathering and who they were was not to just be a great nation.
It was not to just conquer the world, but it was to be God's people.
That was at the center.
Numbers nine.
Verse 15 to 18 says, on the day the tabernacle will set up, the cloud covered the tabernacle.
So imagine that with me.
The 10th of the testimony and appeared like fire above the tabernacle from evening until morning.
It remained that way continuously.
The cloud would cover appearing like fire at night.
Whenever the cloud was lifted above the Israelites,
Above the 10th, the Israelites was set out at the place where the clouds stopped.
There, the Israelites camped.
At the Lord's command, the Israelites set out, and at the Lord's command, they camped.
As long as the clouds stayed over the tabernacle, they camped.
Now, so imagine this with me.
This was the daily life of the Israelites.
When they woke up, no one checked their eye count.
No one checked their notification.
No one checked their text message.
They came out of their sleeping space and looked for the cloud.
And whatever the cloud indicated was what they did that day.
It determined their schedule, it determined their meal, they determined everything.
They could not plan until they looked at the cloud.
He determined everything.
He was the compass.
It wasn't the Promised Land.
It was the presence that was the compass.
He determined where they will go, what they will eat, how they will live.
Now, after the wilderness, they were in the Promised Land.
And the dream that David had that led to today's passage was
a nation that was centered around the presence of God.
And so what was the tabernacle eventually got transferred into the temple.
So the holy of holies was to be in the temple and David's vision and Solomon's mission was to create a temple and this is where the presence of God was hosted and everything was to center around his presence.
So the ancient Jewish life was profoundly impacted.
by the temple of God, culturally, socially, economically, politically.
It was a heart of Jewish identity and daily life.
They had pilgrimage feast there.
They had major life events there.
They had teachings, public discourse.
So what brings us to today's passage, this aim, this attempt at bringing the ark of the covenant, which was supposed to host the presence of God, it was the first big step
towards this vision of a present-centered kingdom.
And we arrive at this grave disappointment, fatal one.
And we have three men highlighted here, Usa, David, and Obadietam.
One died, one got angry, and one was blessed.
And I would love to glean from their lives and this illustration of what it takes to live a life that's orbiting around the presence of God.
Usa, the one that died, the center of his interaction with God was irreverence.
It actually said that he died because of his irreverence.
To him, he was just trying to handle
a box that was about to fall off the cart.
Now, for some of you that may hear about this and think, what's the big deal?
Like, he was just trying to be helpful.
Why did that deserve death?
Now, I want to remind you who Uso was.
He was a son of a binadab.
The Ark of the Covenant was in a binadab's house before this, meaning Uso likely grew up around the Ark.
which is why they had him and his brother lead the procession.
Because they thought, well, you know the thing.
You know how to handle this box.
So you seem to be familiar with hosting the presence.
It seems like you're familiar with it.
And yes, Uso was familiar, but he was too familiar.
Because to him, it was just a box to be handled.
Just as for some of us, it's just a Sunday service to attend.
For some of us, it's just a song.
It's just Scripture.
It's just Bible study.
It's just community groups.
It's just mid-day prayer.
To Usa, it was just a box.
His familiarity, breed,
what was breeding an irreverence.
And I wonder what areas of our faith journey is so familiar that we forget that it is God that we are interacting with.
Now with David, what was at the center was his presumption.
Yes, the vision was good.
Yes, the intention was good.
He did not lack in any zeal.
But he didn't read the manuscript of what God mandated was the way by which they were to move the ark.
He did not go back to figure out God's way.
In fact, he used a new cart which was interesting because that's how the Philistines moved the ark.
And they were not children of God.
So David, he just looked at how other people did it.
He's, he did it how he wanted to do it.
He had this zeal, but he lacked submission to God's order.
It's kind of like that friend.
I don't know if you've ever had this, a friend like this or like a family member or parents maybe, you know, the kind of people that are like, they just do too much.
You know what I'm saying?
Like they do too much.
They like,
They text you all the time, or they do you favors that you never ask for.
And if you don't reciprocate, they're like, wow, this is all that I've done for you.
And you're like, I never asked for it.
David got 30,000 fit young men.
It literally said fit young men.
They didn't even just bother to say men.
They said fit young men.
All right?
That was a descriptor in Scripture.
Okay?
He got 30,000 of them.
to carry a box.
That, I mean, it wasn't for lack of effort, but David's like, you do, I mean, God is like, you do it too much.
I never asked for that.
I asked for a small group of the consecrated, not your most impressive crowd.
So although he had zeal, he lacked submission to God's order.
So at the center of his interaction with God was presumption.
Now, over to Eden.
Let's talk about Obad-edim, okay?
Reminder, it says in 2 Samuel, 6, verse 10, says, So he was not willing to bring the ark of the Lord to the city of David.
This was David.
Instead, he diverted it to the house of Obad-edim of Gath.
The ark of the Lord remained in his house three months and Lord blessed Obad-edim and his whole family.
Now, can you imagine?
Well, first of all, he wasn't even in plan A.
He wasn't included.
He wasn't included in the first try.
He wasn't like qualified, I don't know, David didn't think he was fit or young enough, I don't know.
But can you imagine you're just chilling at home and someone knocks on your door and you open and you see the horror in the faces of 30,000 fit young men.
And they're just like, can you take God?
Can you imagine Obed Edom be like, what?
What's going on?
But he was able to host the presence of God in his home in a way that led to his blessing, which is interesting, because the Ark of the Covenant wasn't a binadab, so I never said that a binadab was blessed.
So what did Obed Edom do?
That allowed him to be so blessed.
It was physically obvious to people that were God to David, Obed Edom's house is getting blessed.
Like what did he do?
What enabled him to host God's presence?
So let's get into the practical details here, okay?
How to build a presence centered life in a practical way and how we glean from Obed Edom's example.
Number one, a perpetual posture of reverent hospitality.
A reverent hospitality.
What's interesting was Obed Edom was not a king or a prophet.
He wasn't even worthwhile to have more than a sentence or two or a phrase written about him in the Bible.
He also wasn't Usa who was chosen to lead the procession because people thought that his familiarity with the orc qualified him.
He wasn't part of the 30,000
young men, chosen by the king.
Obed Edom was a Levite, more specifically a coathite.
And this clan of a clan was specifically charged with the most holy items, meaning they were chosen by God to handle the ark.
Although they were not, Obed Edom was not chosen by other human beings.
He was chosen by God as those that embrace our Lord Jesus Christ are also chosen by God.
He was a son of a Levite musician, so we know that he grew up learning the Levite ways.
He was trained for holy service.
He himself was a gatekeeper and a musician.
He was a father of sons and relatives, and it says in 1 Chronicles 26, there were 62 capable men with strength for the work.
And that doesn't mean that they were just strong.
It meant that they were trained in capacity and had the divine strength for tabernacle service.
Also, we know that Obadietum did not move the ark from his house during those three months.
So his agenda did not push around God.
He likely, from what we are gathering from all these clues, he likely changed his life, prepared his family, trained his sons, shaped his home to function like a sanctuary to host the presence of God.
You know, last night, my husband, my children, and I, we had the pleasure of being with the Statins.
And y'all should have seen the spread.
I mean, it was like a Pinterest living room.
It was, they had candles.
It was like a whole thing, you know?
Like, they had bread in the middle of the table.
Like, it was like, you know?
Like, they prepared.
You guys get what I'm saying.
They made room for six chose to bombard the place, you know?
Now, I want to contrast that.
to an experience that my husband and I had.
We had four children and we had them within five and a half years, so there was a big chunk of my life that I don't remember.
And there was a point when I had an infant and like three toddlers in the house, right?
And we were, my husband and I, we were young adult pastors.
And we had a student that became unhoused for a season of his life.
My husband said, OK, you could stay at our place.
And I'm thinking, and I just heard there's this kid, this college kid coming over and he's going to stay.
And I'm thinking, well, I don't know how long he's going to stay.
And I don't have the bandwidth or the energy to make room for this guy.
So we literally gave him a pillow and a blanket.
He ended up staying with us for a month.
But like I said, my life revolved around being a mom of these
things that were just growing and needing things all the time, right?
And so we never made space for him.
And I didn't know at a certain point this guy was sleeping in the garage.
And I asked him, why are you sleeping in the garage?
And he said, oh, because your dogs keep peeing on my pillow.
And so we literally were the worst hosts of all time because we never made space for him.
We never paved the way.
We never, you know, like,
If you are a good host to anyone, your guest is at the center.
Do you understand what I am talking about?
But we never made space for him, but for some of us, we are sticking Jesus into the garage of our Sunday services.
We're sticking Jesus in our morning, noon and nights.
We're sticking Jesus into a compartment.
Now, those morning, noon and nights are beautiful, by the way.
They're good.
when we're meant to be hosts perpetually from morning to night, from sun up to sundown.
So my question and perhaps a challenge to us is, does your life revolve around Jesus?
Does he take space?
Is he at the center of your decision-making, your agenda, your purpose?
Or is he a good luck charm to hopefully bless
our hopes and dreams.
Another thing to build a present-centered life is a recognition of God's order.
That's what David failed to do.
And back then, there was a scriptural mandate.
There was a procedure to be done, right?
In the Old Testament, the arc was to be handled by the Levites, the coathite clan of the Levites in particular.
Also, there was no
gazing at the items, you have to cover the items, you have to carry the ark with poles, so no one were to touch the ark.
This is not because God has no chill, right?
But to follow this order demonstrated lordship.
It demonstrated who's boss.
It demonstrated who this is for.
It's God's way, not David's way.
We approach the presence of God by the mediation of Jesus.
We don't need polls, we don't need coverings.
It's Jesus' way.
Jesus first.
I remember, okay, so when I first met my husband, I was already pastoring at a church at a young age.
And back then, I didn't know any female preachers or pastors or anything like that.
So there wasn't much imagination for what a woman could do for Jesus.
So my dream for Jesus was to be a martyr.
I wanted to be the best.
Those are the ones mentioned in Revelation.
So I'm like, that's what I want to be for Jesus.
Now, when I got engaged, my husband did not, he wasn't an agreement fully with my vision.
And we had to have a couple people mediate for us and really give it, like sit us down.
And my thing was we're ministers.
It's ministry first.
My husband said, we're also human.
So it's family first.
And I remember someone sat us down and he said, you're both wrong.
It's Jesus first.
You're out of order.
Do you see what I'm saying?
It's Jesus first.
And third, we need a stewardship of the holiness of God's presence.
A stewardship of the holiness of God's presence.
Now, Obed Eden was a gatekeeper.
A gatekeeper is a different kind of phrase today.
It kind of has like a negative tone, like you're keeping someone from a good thing.
But when he was a gatekeeper, he stood guarding the temple and making sure that the temple was not
Disrespected that everything was handled with reference, guarding the holy presence.
Are you aware of who you are in proximity to?
Are you aware?
Now, it's not like my husband and I asked for this in our town in Primus, New Jersey.
We're pastors, but usually,
towns folks, they find that out way later.
So in the beginning, they're like, oh, you know, they're acting totally chill and joking with us like these crude jokes and like the swearing and like, you know, and we're, it was fine, you know, but when they figure out what we do, all of a sudden it's like, hello, Dave.
Oh, man, oh, dark, you know, like, it's like the way the act is just different because they became aware
of what we do.
Does that make sense?
It's not a perfect analogy, but I wonder, are we aware of God's holy presence when we watch our shows, when we are in traffic jams, when things are just not working out, when the child throws up on us, when the person rejects us, are we aware?
of the holiness of God's presence with us.
Today, the presence of God is not an ark in a temple.
It's the Holy Spirit.
You now are the temple and the holy of holies.
Isn't you?
You are God's chosen residence by the blood of Jesus Christ.
He tore the veil.
So as he was in the center of the garden, at the center of Israel, he's now to be at the center of our lives and the center of our fellowship, our compass, our purpose, our reward.
The church was in birth with a bright idea.
It was birth because of the baptism of the Holy Spirit.
Even when Jesus gave his mission statement to the disciples, we know what's interesting was in the garden, he gave them a commission to go and be fruitful.
And then he said, but first rest with me.
And then the second time around in the Great Commission, he says, now go and make disciples of all nations, but first wait for me, because everything we do is meant to be an overflow.
of this communion with God.
The garden was supposed to expand out of friendship, but today we're trying to expand our gardens as strangers who happen to sometimes be well-behaved.
It says in Acts 1, 4 to 5, while he was with them, he commanded them not to leave Jerusalem, but to wait for the Father's promise.
What she said, he have heard me speak about, for John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit in a few days.
The church is meant to not just be spirit-filled people, but those who befriend Jesus, who the presence centered life and from there everything is supposed to overflow.
Why else would Jesus say, abide in me?
And I knew, and you would do great things in John 15.
And I'm gonna close with this.
When I was a young youth pastor, I mean, I was very ambitious.
Like I had a very rich discipleship journey when I was young.
And so when I had my first go at it as a pastor, like I was dreaming big.
I wanted to see revival.
I wanted to see expansion.
I wanted to see fruit.
I was, my dedicated time of prayer was like four hours a day.
Like, I just, I was, and I did all of it.
I lit the candles.
I was rolling around on the ground.
I was spitting in tongues.
I did all of it.
And, but at a certain point, I was also very frustrated with God.
Kind of like David.
Like, why won't the art come to me?
Where's the move of the Spirit?
Where's the signs, miracles, and wonders?
Where's the experience?
Where is the encounter?
And I started to get frustrated and at times hopeless.
One night I had a dream.
And you know, you could take with us what you will.
But I had a dream.
This is just my lived experience.
And I saw the Godhead.
I saw the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit in my dream.
And I remember the sun looked at me and it was with conviction.
And he said, you do not know the Holy Spirit.
And I looked over at the Holy Spirit and I saw his eyes, he fell to the compassion, grief, love, and I woke up with holy fear.
And I did not understand.
At first, Jesus, I spent four hours praying.
I do all the things.
I fast.
I lead as faithfully as possible.
But I realized to me, he was just an arc that needed to be moved from point A to point B. I wanted the arc to move according to my agenda when my life was to revolt.
around the presence of God.
Can we all rise?
Thanks for joining the Bridgestown family as we engage in this teaching series.
To learn more about the life of our church and how you can get involved, visit bridgestown.church.com.
If you're interested in contributing financially to Bridgestown Church and to our ministry,
You can do that at bridgetown.church.gov.
Wherever you're joining us from, we hope this resource blesses you and encourages you to be with Jesus, become like Jesus, and do what Jesus did.